but if you wanted to actually create a
controller to do the same thing I'll do
that with this joint now what I can
actually do is have a second node we can
have a group note that does this for us
that it kind of hides those translate
values ok so I'm going to create another
circle and what I'm going to do is I'm
actually going to group it to itself
okay so I'm just going to hit command G
and now you can see we have group one
and normally you want to be going along
and naming all this stuff but just for
speeding up this tutorial we'll just
kind of breeze through with or renaming
ok so now you can see I have nervous
circle under group 1 now remember this
is different than the shapes ok because
we still have the shape node under this
nerve circle what groups allow us to do
is preserve whatever is underneath it
right basically it's um a good analogy
of this is imagine the nerve circle is
somebody writing a bus ok and the bus is
the group so wherever the group goes
right where the bus goes being the group
ok you see I'm moving to group the nerve
circle actually goes with it and the
nerves circle stays relative ok you can
see as values do not change okay because
we're affecting the parent ok so what
I'm actually going to do here is similar
to how we first did this I'm going to
select the group and then I'm going to
shift select this joint and hip parent
ok now this automatically takes us back
to the group node if you actually
deselect the group known what you can do
is you can go into the old liner and
just find just under this joint here and
also hit frame if you hit F on your
keyboard it'll it'll reveal whatever
we're looking for
okay so if you highlight the curve you
press up on your keyboard that will take
you to the group node okay and then we
can head F in here and that will show it
okay so now you can see it's parented to
this choice if I actually move this join
round or rotate it you can see that it
moves with it so what I'm going to do is
I'm going to highlight the group node
again you can either do that nail liner
or selected here press up to move up the
hierarchy and i'm just going to zero
this out there we go so it's now exactly
centered now i'm going to hit shift p 2
unpaired okay can also go edit unpaired
down here should be ok now I'm going to
do is I'm just going to take the group
node here and I'm just going to rotate
it 90 like that okay and important thing
now is that we do not freeze the group
node okay so we're only manipulating the
group node right now if you you
shouldn't have any values on the nerves
circle just the group node okay and so
now what we're going to do is we're
actually going to parent constrain the
joint okay to the nerve circle not the
group okay because we still want to
build us like this this circle to
control it so I'm going to highlight the
joint okay or actually highlight the
curve just like a joint constrain parent
okay so now you can see that if i rotate
this it affects the joint its values are
0 but it's on that axis okay so
everything from that group note is now
cycling down to the child but we don't
have those values but it takes on that
orientation okay now the other thing you
have to be careful when you do this sort
of control system is if I now pull this
away okay you can see that that joint is
locked to this controller so what we
have to do is make sure we attach
now this control to the rest of the
joints so that it moves with it okay so
what I'm going to do is you got to make
sure that you attach it to the next
joint up okay and what we're going to do
is we're actually going to take this
joint joint too okay not the controller
if you use a controller system okay
we're just going to take the joint
itself okay and I'm going to take
command click on group 1 i'm going to go
constrain parent okay so now that will
go wherever the hand goes and if i were
to rotate this joint you can see that
the control moves with it and so does
this one okay so now we can still have
that controller that has these nice
clean value that everything is zeroed
out okay and it still has that
rotational axis so again we have those
three different methods right we have
the actual joint display handle okay
again that's in your attribute editor
display handle turn that on and off we
can parent the shape of a curve to a
joint okay so now that that shape now is
actually part of that joint okay or we
can create a separate controller that we
can now use that is not part of that
joint